help/matrix_optics.rst, before:

.. index:: single: matrix optics

Calculation of Beam Parameters in Resonators
============================================

The description is given according to the book "Lasers" by A.E. Siegman, see chapter 21 "Generalized paraxial resonator theory". 

For the analysis, we need to select a reference plane to calculate :doc:`the round trip matrix<round_trip_matrix>` against. In general, an element chosen as a parameter of a particular function is the reference plane.

Having the round-trip matrix we can write an expression for transformation of :ref:`complex parameter<gauss_complex_param>`:

    .. image:: img/gauss_q_abcd.png

Because we consider a stable resonator, the output parameter is the same as the input one, so the beam is self-consistent, and it reproduces itself after full round-trip through the resonator:

    .. image:: img/abcd_q_in_out.png
    
|para|

    .. image:: img/abcd_q.png

Then we can find out the complex parameter as a solution to the quadratic equation:

    .. image:: img/abcd_q_quadratic.png


But for convenience, it is better to rewrite this equation meaning the inverted complex parameter:

    .. image:: img/abcd_q_quadratic_1.png


using the relationship

    .. image:: img/abcd_ad_bc.png

Self-conformed Complex Radius of Curvature
------------------------------------------

The solution to this equation gives values of the complex parameter of self-consistent Hermite-gaussian mode in the resonator:

    .. image:: img/abcd_solution.png

or

    .. image:: img/abcd_solution_1.png


One of the solutions gives unreal situation when the beam's energy increases with radial distance.

Knowing the expression of the complex parameter through beam characteristics

    .. image:: img/gauss_q.png

we can express the properties of the self-consistent beam in terms of round-trip matrix elements.

Radius of Wavefront Curvature
-----------------------------

Calculation of the radius of wavefront curvature of the self-consistent beam from components of round-trip matrix:

    .. image:: img/abcd_curvature.png
   
   
Beam Radius
-----------

Calculation of the self-consistent beam radius from components of round-trip matrix:

    .. image:: img/abcd_radius_1.png

|para|

    .. image:: img/abcd_radius_2.png
    
|para|

    .. image:: img/abcd_radius_3.png
    
.. seealso::

    :doc:`gauss`

Commit message:

add examples with complex lens, add sample notebook for complex stability

help/matrix_optics.rst, after:

.. index:: single: matrix optics

Calculation of Beam Parameters in Resonators
============================================

The description is given according to the book "Lasers" by A.E. Siegman, see chapter 21 "Generalized paraxial resonator theory". 

For the analysis, we need to select a reference plane to calculate :doc:`the round trip matrix<round_trip_matrix>` against. In general, an element chosen as a parameter of a particular function is the reference plane.

Having the round-trip matrix we can write an expression for transformation of :ref:`complex parameter<gauss_complex_param>`:

    .. image:: img/gauss_q_abcd.png

Because we consider a stable resonator, the output parameter is the same as the input one, so the beam is self-consistent, and it reproduces itself after full round-trip through the resonator:

    .. image:: img/abcd_q_in_out.png
    
|para|

    .. image:: img/abcd_q.png

Then we can find out the complex parameter as a solution to the quadratic equation:

    .. image:: img/abcd_q_quadratic.png


But for convenience, it is better to rewrite this equation meaning the inverted complex parameter:

    .. image:: img/abcd_q_quadratic_1.png


using the relationship

    .. image:: img/abcd_ad_bc.png

Self-conformed Complex Radius of Curvature
------------------------------------------

The solution to this equation gives values of the complex parameter of self-consistent Hermite-gaussian mode in the resonator:

    .. image:: img/abcd_solution.png

or

    .. image:: img/abcd_solution_1.png


One of the solutions gives unreal situation when the beam's energy increases with radial distance.

Knowing the expression of the complex parameter through beam characteristics

    .. image:: img/gauss_q.png

we can calculate radius and ROC of self-consistent beam in resonator:

    .. image:: img/gauss_q_r_w.png

Beam Properties in Terms of Matrix Components
-------------------------------------------

ROC of the self-consistent beam:

    .. image:: img/abcd_curvature.png

Self-consistent beam radius:

    .. image:: img/abcd_radius_1.png

|para|

    .. image:: img/abcd_radius_2.png

|para|

    .. image:: img/abcd_radius_3.png

Half-divergence in far-field zone:

    .. tex:
        V_S^2 = \cfrac{\lambda}{\pi} \cfrac{2 C}{\sqrt{4 - (A + D)^2}}

    .. image:: img/abcd_angle.png

These formulas are given just for information. They do not suit when matrix components are complex numbers, so the application actually doesn't use them and calculates beam properties from self-consistent `q` parameter directly.

.. seealso::

    :doc:`gauss`
