docs/build.md, before:

# Building from sources

## Prepare build environment

### Qt

[Qt for Open Source](https://www.qt.io/download-open-source) must be installed. The target Qt version for all platforms is 5.15.2 currently. For Windows select the "MSVC 2019 64-bit" flavour. QtCreator is the default IDE used for the project.

### Visual Studio

Microsoft C++ compiler is used on Windows, so [Visual Studio Community 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/en/vs/community/) must be installed separately. The only required target is the "Desktop development with C++".

Visual Studio can also be used as the IDE for Qt projects with the [Qt Visual Studio Tools](https://doc.qt.io/qtvstools-2) extension. In VS go to "Extensions -> Manage Extensions", search for the extension and install it, then go to "Extensions -> Qt VS Tools -> Qt Versions" and register a Qt installation path.

### CMake

CMake could be installed separately or as part of Qt installation.

### vcpkg

[vcpkg](https://vcpkg.io/) is an open source package manager for C++. It must be installed in a directory separated from the project for preparing third party dependencies, such as Python:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg.git
```

Then run `bootstrap-vcpkg.sh` or `bootstrap-vcpkg.bat` depending on the platform, add the vcpkg directory to the `PATH`, and create the `VCPKG_ROOT` variable containing the installation path.

Download and compile dependencies in the project directory:

```bash
vcpkg install
```

**Ubuntu:** at least 22 (jammy) is required to be able to build Python.

When configuring project in QtCreator, add additional option in the CMake Initial Configuration tab and reconfigure. It must pointing to the installed vcpkg toolchain file location, e.g.:

```
-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE:FILEPATH=/home/user/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake
```

### Qt quirks

**[Ubuntu] Platform plugin**

If QtCreator refuses to run on Ubuntu because of

```log
qt.qpa.plugin: Could not load the Qt platform plugin "xcb" in "" even though it was found.
```

try to run 

```bash
sudo apt-get install --reinstall libxcb-xinerama0
```

I use 16.04 for builds and this works. (UPD: Ubuntu 22.04 used since reZonator-2.1)

**[Ubuntu] GL lib**

First time when building on Ubuntu it says

```log
../Qt/5.15.2/gcc_64/include/QtGui/qopengl.h:141:22: fatal error: GL/gl.h: No such file or directory
```

additional dev libs must be installed:

```bash
sudo apt-get install build-essential libgl1-mesa-dev
```

These also mentioned in QCustomPlot [instructions](https://www.qcustomplot.com/index.php/tutorials/settingup) so probably will be needed:

```bash
sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
```

**[macOS] Latest Qt for Sierra**

Version Qt 5.12.10 is the latest of 5.* LTSs availablbe for Sierra (10.12).
QtCreator 4.10.2 is the latest as well and must be downloaded and installed manually.
Also 5.12.10 kit must be registered manually in that "obsolete" QtCreator.

## Clone git repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/orion-project/rezonator2
cd rezonator2
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

Note that submodules are in 'detached head' state by default.

<!--
## Prepare third-party libraries

### Windows

[QCustomPlot](https://www.qcustomplot.com) is used via wrapper [repository](https://github.com/orion-project/custom-plot-lab) (in submodule). The library source file `qcustomplot.cpp` is so large that it even fails to build in debug mode (`x86_64-w64-mingw32/bin/as.exe: debug\qcustomplot.o: too many sections (33061) Fatal error: debug\qcustomplot.o: file too big`). So if the debug mode is needed, you have to use QCustomPlot as shared library. Build the library:

```bash
cd libs\custom-plot-lab\qcustomplot
qmake
mingw32-make release
```

Then enable option `qcustomplotlab_shared` in `rezonator.pro` and rebuild the app in debug mode.
-->

## Dev build

Use *Qt Creator IDE* to do dev builds. Just open project file `CMakeLists.txt` in the IDE and configure it to use some of the installed Qt-kits. Any of modern Qt 5.15.2+ kits should suit.

Target file is `bin/rezonator` (Linux), `bin/rezonator.app` (MacOS), or `bin\rezonator.exe` (Windows). 

<!--
## Release build

```bash
# Linux/MacOS
./scripts/build_release.sh

# Windows
scripts\build_release.bat
```

Ensure that Qt bin directory is in your `PATH` to make the above scripts working. On Windows you have to put MinGW `bin` directory `<qt-root>\<qt-version>\mingw*\bin` into the `PATH` too. The scripts do the full rebuild and it takes a while.
-->

## Source code documentation

```bash
sudo apt install doxygen
sudo apt install graphviz
mkdir -p out/src-doc
doxygen
```

## User manual

See [building documentation](../help/README.md).

Commit message:

add python to macos distr

docs/build.md, after:

# Building from sources

## Prepare build environment

### Qt

[Qt for Open Source](https://www.qt.io/download-open-source) must be installed. The target Qt version for all platforms is 5.15.2 currently. For Windows select the "MSVC 2019 64-bit" flavour. QtCreator is the default IDE used for the project.

### Visual Studio

Microsoft C++ compiler is used on Windows, so [Visual Studio Community 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/en/vs/community/) must be installed separately. The only required target is the "Desktop development with C++".

Visual Studio can also be used as the IDE for Qt projects with the [Qt Visual Studio Tools](https://doc.qt.io/qtvstools-2) extension. In VS go to "Extensions -> Manage Extensions", search for the extension and install it, then go to "Extensions -> Qt VS Tools -> Qt Versions" and register a Qt installation path.

### CMake

CMake could be installed separately or as part of Qt installation.

### vcpkg

[vcpkg](https://vcpkg.io/) is an open source package manager for C++. It must be installed in a directory separated from the project for preparing third party dependencies, such as Python:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg.git
```

Then run `bootstrap-vcpkg.sh` or `bootstrap-vcpkg.bat` depending on the platform, add the vcpkg directory to the `PATH`, and create the `VCPKG_ROOT` variable containing the installation path.

Download and compile dependencies in the project directory:

```bash
vcpkg install
```

**Ubuntu:** at least 22 (jammy) is required to be able to build Python.

**macOS:** Qt 6.9.3 should be used to link Python to the app (see details below in the "Quirks" section) 

When configuring project in QtCreator, add additional option in the CMake Initial Configuration tab and reconfigure. It must pointing to the installed vcpkg toolchain file location, e.g.:

```
-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE:FILEPATH=/home/user/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake
```


### Qt quirks

**[Ubuntu] Platform plugin**

If QtCreator refuses to run on Ubuntu because of

```log
qt.qpa.plugin: Could not load the Qt platform plugin "xcb" in "" even though it was found.
```

try to run 

```bash
sudo apt-get install --reinstall libxcb-xinerama0
```

I use 16.04 for builds and this works. (UPD: Ubuntu 22.04 used since reZonator-2.1)

**[Ubuntu] GL lib**

First time when building on Ubuntu it says

```log
../Qt/5.15.2/gcc_64/include/QtGui/qopengl.h:141:22: fatal error: GL/gl.h: No such file or directory
```

additional dev libs must be installed:

```bash
sudo apt-get install build-essential libgl1-mesa-dev
```

These also mentioned in QCustomPlot [instructions](https://www.qcustomplot.com/index.php/tutorials/settingup) so probably will be needed:

```bash
sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libglu1-mesa-dev
```

**(obsolete) [macOS] Latest Qt for Sierra**

Version Qt 5.12.10 is the latest of 5.* LTSs availablbe for Sierra (10.12).
QtCreator 4.10.2 is the latest as well and must be downloaded and installed manually.
Also 5.12.10 kit must be registered manually in that "obsolete" QtCreator.

**[macOS] Latest Qt for Monterey**

To provide wider compatibiliy, version 12 of macOS is used for compiling the app and building a redistributable dmg image. When using Qt 5.15.2, linking of Python libraries fails because of some inconsistence (?) in architecture names between Python and application object modules. So Qt 6.9.3 should be used, it is the latest of 6.* versions supporting macOS 12. The lastest Qt Creator supporting macOS 12 is [17.0.2](https://github.com/qt-creator/qt-creator/releases/tag/v17.0.2), should be installed separately from GitHub. Qt Maintenance Tool installs a newer version which is incompatible.

## Clone git repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/orion-project/rezonator2
cd rezonator2
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

Note that submodules are in 'detached head' state by default.

<!--
## Prepare third-party libraries

### Windows

[QCustomPlot](https://www.qcustomplot.com) is used via wrapper [repository](https://github.com/orion-project/custom-plot-lab) (in submodule). The library source file `qcustomplot.cpp` is so large that it even fails to build in debug mode (`x86_64-w64-mingw32/bin/as.exe: debug\qcustomplot.o: too many sections (33061) Fatal error: debug\qcustomplot.o: file too big`). So if the debug mode is needed, you have to use QCustomPlot as shared library. Build the library:

```bash
cd libs\custom-plot-lab\qcustomplot
qmake
mingw32-make release
```

Then enable option `qcustomplotlab_shared` in `rezonator.pro` and rebuild the app in debug mode.
-->

## Dev build

Use *Qt Creator IDE* to do dev builds. Just open project file `CMakeLists.txt` in the IDE and configure it to use some of the installed Qt-kits. Any of modern Qt 5.15.2+ kits should suit.

Target file is `bin/rezonator` (Linux), `bin/rezonator.app` (MacOS), or `bin\rezonator.exe` (Windows). 

<!--
## Release build

```bash
# Linux/MacOS
./scripts/build_release.sh

# Windows
scripts\build_release.bat
```

Ensure that Qt bin directory is in your `PATH` to make the above scripts working. On Windows you have to put MinGW `bin` directory `<qt-root>\<qt-version>\mingw*\bin` into the `PATH` too. The scripts do the full rebuild and it takes a while.
-->

## Source code documentation

```bash
sudo apt install doxygen
sudo apt install graphviz
mkdir -p out/src-doc
doxygen
```

## User manual

See [building documentation](../help/README.md).
